Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Boards may review research with non-protected species (e.g. invertebrates), even though this is not required under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act.
True
At which point can it be determined that copyright has been established?
Once it has been physically created or recorded
Breaches of responsible conduct in animal research only harm the animals concerned.
False
Controversial research is research that should not be undertaken under any circumstances.
False
Dual use refers to research that could be used in beneficial or harmful ways.
True
Encouragement to commercialise academic research is controversial.
True
Exploration of the outer planets expands our understanding of the solar system, but has limited, if any, immediate benefit. Which type of 'use' is this kind of research an example of?
Basic research
How many years after an author's death does copyright protection generally last in the UK?
70
If a patent is granted and renewal fees are paid, how long will it be valid for?
20 years from the date of application
If you are hired to do contractual research for someone else, you may not be able to own or share the resulting intellectual property.
True
If your research is publicly funded, you always have the first right to profit from your intellectual property.
False
Impact is only assessed at the beginning of a project by the funder and progress reports aren't required.
False
Intellectual property is a term that only describes physical products.
False
Intellectual property rules and regulations establish who owns and can benefit from the ideas that underpin technology or knowledge.
True
It does not matter if more animals are used than the number that was authorised.
False
It is critical that participants provide their informed consent, fully understanding any risks that may be presented, before a study goes ahead.
True
It is never necessary to seek copyright permission from your publisher to upload an article to an open access repository.
False
It is responsible to use DNA samples to investigate links to schizophrenia, when the initial permission only extended to the investigation of diabetes.
False
Keeping records of all activities is a key part of which stage of maximising the impact of research?
Creating impact
Patents are NOT granted for which of the following?
A new theory
Requesting consenting adults to give blood samples is an example of an irresponsible research practice involving human participants.
False
Research conducted outside the scope of the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research is not subject to any specific codes of conduct or policies for review and approval.
False
Research institutions have flexibility (within the law) to establish their own policies on the terms of intellectual property ownership.
True
Research students can never claim ownership of ideas developed during collaborative projects and in classes.
False
Social media posts and press releases are likely to be intended for which of the following types of audience?
Public
Staff and students should always establish agreements that provide guidance on the steps to be taken should any patentable IP arise from a student project.
True
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) looks for evidence of the 'significance' and 'reach' of the research carried out by institutions.
True
The UK has a common government policy for reviewing and approving all research involving human participants.
False
The broader responsibilities that researchers take on during their careers do not include work for public and private organisations.
False
The difference between the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and funders' assessment of research grant applications, is that the REF does not look at impact.
False
The ideas leading to a new computer program could be considered intellectual property.
True
The ideas leading to new technologies and specialist ways of working could be considered intellectual property.
True
The principle of reduction calls for using methods aimed at reducing the number of animals used.
True
The principle of refinement could involve which of the following?
Employing appropriate anaesthetics and analgesics
The principle of replacement could involve which of the following?
Employing proper statistical analysis
What is the first step you should take when seeking to establish ownership of intellectual property?
Report it to your institution
What is the name of the national regulations that govern research with animals in the UK?
Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act, 1986
What types of conflicts of interest would a review committee want to know about?
Potential and actual, of all types
When aiming to show sensitivity as part of your continuing responsibilities, which of the following statements holds true?
You need to speak with everyone who could be affected to make sure they understand and are comfortable with the planned work
When you are in a position that requires you to provide professional advice, you should base what you say directly on your research. Which of the following statements violates this rule?
"Support for our programme has been cut, presumably to fund other efforts."
When you are in a position that requires you to provide professional information, you should clearly inform your audience when your advice goes beyond your research expertise or could be influenced by conflicts of interest. Which of the following statements violates this rule?
"I haven't received any objections from anyone so the intervention is clearly working."
When you communicate your work, which advice applies across all types of communication?
Always think carefully before you say or write anything
Where can a researcher find out more information about copyright requirements in the UK?
UK Intellectual Property Office
Which of the following elements is NOT required for an invention to qualify for a patent?
It will benefit the public
Which of the following functions is an institution's Named Animal Care and Welfare Officer responsible for?
Ensuring that all animals are properly cared for
Which of the following is NOT a criterion for owning intellectual property in the UK?
You proposed a new theory in a discussion with a colleague
Which of the following is NOT a key part of communicating impact?
Using data accurately and responsibly to evaluate the significance and reach of research
Which of the following is NOT an example of a broader responsibility to a public organisation?
Assuming responsibility for running a professional journal
Which of the following is NOT an example of an irresponsible professional behaviour that you might encounter when working with colleagues?
An editor allowing her preference for certain methods to affect decisions about what is published
Which of the following is NOT an example of good practice in communicating your research responsibly?
Taking the initiative to issue a press release without involving your collaborators
Which of the following is NOT an example of prior disclosure?
Discussion of a new invention with your intellectual property officer
Which of the following is NOT one of the audiences intended for research communications?
Your own personal use
Which of the following is NOT one of the basic principles of research involving human participants?
Participants can request financial compensation
Which of the following is NOT one of the basic responsibilities for the care and use of animals in research?
Be familiar with other animal research projects being conducted at your institution
Which of the following is NOT one of the continuing responsibilities researchers have after the research has been approved?
Keep the research ethics committee informed of all developments
Which of the following is NOT one of the steps involved in filing for a patent?
Estimate the profits to be gained via the patent
Which of the following is NOT something that a review committee might need to know about your project?
Guaranteed outcomes
Which of the following is a limitation to copyright?
Copyrights are time limited
Which of the following is a step involved in filing for a patent?
All of the above
Which of the following is an example of a broader responsibility to a private organisation?
Helping a start-up company set up a research programme
Which of the following is an example of a broader responsibility to your institution?
Directing a departmental research programme
Which of the following is an example of the fair distribution of risks and benefits?
Research conducted with a vulnerable population that benefits that population
Which of the following is one of the continuing responsibilities researchers have after the research has been approved?
Report unanticipated events
Which of the following is true of the process of establishing ownership of intellectual property?
Seeking to protect your intellectual property could delay releasing your research results
Which of the following may have a code of conduct or policy for review and approval that a researcher should consult?
All of the above
Which of the following might be a negative outcome of taking steps to protect your intellectual property?
All of the above
Which of the following questions do you NOT need to consider when you communicate your research?
Will the publication be used by competitive researchers to advance their work?
Which of the following scenarios represents an irresponsible professional behaviour that you might encounter when working with colleagues?
A committee making decisions without checking all sources
Which of the following scenarios represents irresponsible professional behaviour that you might encounter when working with colleagues?
A colleague complaining that her paper was not accepted
Which of the following statements is NOT true of governance review of research involving human participants?
It provides an 'opinion' as to whether the research can be considered ethical
Which of the following statements is true of patents granted in the UK?
They are only valid in the UK
Which of the following statements is true of research ethics committee (REC) review of research involving human participants?
It is primarily focused on whether the proposed research addresses ethical principles
Which of the following statements is true?
Research that only collects completely anonymous information could be exempt from some types of review
Which of the following statements is untrue?
Interpretations of facts cannot be copyrighted
Which of the following statements reflects a personal rather than a professional opinion?
"Basing a publication decision on a journal's Impact Factor is, in my view, dangerous."
Which of the following statements reflects a professional rather than a personal opinion?
"The evidence shows that the rate of drug use among pre-teens has increased since 2015."
Which of the following types of communication is usually intended for a private audience?
Email messages
Which of the following types of communication is usually intended for a professional audience?
Conference presentations
Which of the following types of research may be exempt from some types of review?
Clinical research
Which of the following would NOT need to be addressed in a review committee application?
Researchers' personal convictions
Which of the following would NOT need to be included in your plan for protecting sensitive information, to be reviewed by a governance or research ethics committee?
A sample of the data
Which of the following would NOT typically be required as part of the project justification in a review committee application?
A detailed description of the entire project
Which principle is being thwarted if research participants are unduly influenced to participate in a study?
Autonomy
Which principle is being thwarted if research participants without computer access are offered an online voucher?
Justice
Who has final authority to approve or reject projects that require review?
The research sponsor/institution
Who is NOT responsible for regular monitoring of the conduct of a research project involving human participants?
The research ethics committee
Who usually owns the intellectual property resulting from research funded by the UK Government?
The organisation undertaking the work
